---
id: core-types
title: Core Types
description: Testing lmfao
---

These are types that are shared between platforms

## Types
Primitive types in Nexus are the most basic types you can get.

### String (`string`)
Represents a string.

- Buffer Size: `4 bytes + length(value) bytes` (the size of the string + the string itself)

### Boolean (`boolean`)
Represents a boolean.

- Buffer Size: `1 byte` (`int8`)

### Int8 (`int8`)
Represents an 8-bit signed integer (-128 to 127)

- Buffer Size: `1 byte`

### Int16 (`int16`)

- Buffer Size: `2 bytes`

### Int32 (`int32`)
- Buffer Size: `4 bytes`

### UInt8 (`uint8`)
Represents an 8-bit unsigned integer (0 to 255)

### UInt16 (`uint16`)
- Buffer Size: `2 bytes`

### UInt32 (`uint32`)
- Buffer Size: `4 bytes`

### Float32 (`float32`)
- Buffer Size: `4 bytes`

### Float64 (`float64`)
- Buffer Size: `8 bytes`

## Type Functions
Type functions are functions which generate more complex types from other types in Nexus.

### SetOf(T) (`Set<T>`)
`[Serializer]`

- Buffer size: `4 bytes + sizeof(T) * elements` (the size of the array + the size of each element in the array)
- Equivalent to a `Set` in TypeScript
- Serializes to an array

### ArrayOf(T) (`Array<T>`)
`[Serializer]`

- Buffer size: `4 bytes + sizeof(T) * elements` (the size of the array + the size of each element in the array)
- Equivalent to an `Array` in TypeScript
- Serializes to an array

### MapOf(K, V) (`Map<K, V>`)
`[Serializer]`

- Buffer size: `4 bytes + (sizeof(K) * elements) + (sizeof(V) * elements)` (the size of the array + the size of each key in the array + the size of each value in the array)
- Equivalent to a `Map` in TypeScript. 
- Serializes to a Key/Pair value array set.

### TupleOf(...) (`[T0, T1, ...]`)
`[Serializer]`

- Buffer Size: Will be the size of each individual element
- Serializes to a fixed size array.

### Literal(...) (`"A" | "B" | "C"`)
`[Serializer]`

- Buffer Size: `1 byte`
- Serializes to a number representing which literal it is. (up to 256 values)

### Optional(T) (`T?`)

- Buffer Size: `1 byte + sizeof(T)` if defined, else `1 byte`

### Interface(`{ [key]: NetworkType }`)
`[Serializer]`

- Serializes to a map of serialized values
- Buffer Size: Will depend on the values, keys aren't included in this calculation.
- When using buffers, it will be encoded as a key hash-sorted array.